In the previous video, I showed some of the different forms of functional interface can take with the
importance of a single abstract method existing on the interface exactly one either through inheritance
or declaration.
The functional interface is the framework on which the lambda expression is constructed.
A lambda expression can be used in a local variable declaration or past as an argument to a method.
The local variable and the method parameter are typed with a functional interface type.
The abstract methods parameters represent the parameters in the lambda expression.
The return top of the abstract method represents the value returned from the lambda expression, and
the task must be equal.
Polymorphic speaking lambda expressions.
Execution is deferred until it's passed to executing a method that executes the function.
I'm going to include a partial slide from the one zero one nine one course on Lambda Expressions.
I would recommend you review the videos from that course on Lambda Expressions before watching this
video.
Lambda expression Syntex, So this information was on these two links that I've got on screen that are
in the resources section.
Now I like this image because it very quickly tells you what you need to know about writing a lambda
expression.
A lambda expression is composed of three parts parameters, the argument list a comma separated list
of formal parameters enclosed in parentheses.
You can admit the top declaration of the parameters in a lambda expression.
If you include top declarations, you must declare a top for each parameter.
In addition, you can limit the parentheses if there is only one parameter, if you have no parameters,
you can represent this with an empty parentheses set which is required.
Next, we have the arrow taken, the dash grid then then we've got the body, the body can consist of
a single expression.
The expression must evaluate to the top of the method.
Return to the word return cannot be used in a single expression body.
Also, the body can consist of a statement block closed, the left-to-right curly braces, the word
return is required.
It's a method of return type.
It's not void in all statements in the plot.
Even a single statement must end in a semicolon.
Well, let's go back to the idea that we need a new class down in our Lambda Expressions project, let's
call this one Lambda Example's.
Right to this current crisis, first we have a simple functional interface called viable, they've got
this Lamda Example's class.
This is demonstrating, assigning lambda expressions to a static variable, an instance variable or
so in the main methadone here, assigning a lambda expression to a local variable.
Note that this expression is in the left-to-right.
Kelly Price's enclosing the body.
We've also got that view it method at the top of the screen that's got a viewable typed parameter.
So if you run this code.
Now order to create local variables, to use lambda expressions, you can pass the expression directly
to a method.
It's not about doing that on a pasicolan.
We are opposed to that rather than the end of the main method in this case, the lambda expression is
passed as part of the method invocation if you run that.
So we get the output soaring on the screen.
And some more cope in this instance, I'm calling the view at method with a lambda expression in a fully
I use the iteration variable in the lambda expression itself, as you can see there.
So I will run this.
So the airport demonstrates that using a variable from the enclosing code is permissible under some
conditions, they'll be discussing this more in a bit.
But now that we need another class, let's go ahead and create another class or call this lambda example
to.
But this card consists of first two functional interfaces, Calculable and Schobel, they've got this
labor example to class the same day.
We've got a private static method using a void return top.
We've got a private static method using an int.
That's a return top.
We've got our main method that shows some of the many ways to declare a valid lambda expression.
Quite a few there, as you can see, right down to the bottom of the main mouth there, the case obviously
compiling because we haven't got any errors.
Let's run it.
So the code compiled, but I never actually execute any of the labor expressions, were there any surprises
there for you?
And we have looked at this quite a few examples there, but no output.
Again, the reason is I didn't actually execute any of the lab expressions.
So, again, were there any surprises?
Maybe the fact that you can auto lambda perimeter's or that you can execute a method with a return type
in a lab expression or a functional interface method with a void return type?
Now, let's look at ways that we can declare an invalid lambrew expression as patients are out here
to the main method.
So this card demonstrates at least 11 ways to do it wrong.
You could probably think of many more wrong amount of parameters.
A couple of examples of that.
You cannot use a return statement in a single expression and not in curly brackets, can't pass constraints
in the parameter list.
You cannot omit the permanent section altogether.
Parentheses is required.
If the method has no parameters, they are the last one.
This expression returns a string of the methods void.
I'm sure you could probably think of a few more as well as I'm going to comment about those future reference.
If you need to access them.
All right, let's create a new class, we'll call this one LAMDA example three.
Krajisnik can't comment at all the other ones.
I'll start from there as well and just remove any errors in our LAMDA example to point this out, led
by example three four.
This code consists of at the top there, an interface called Runnable and is a functional interface
and a lambda example, three class consists of C there that we've got a static field, but this is field.
We've got to construct their parents constructor and our main method.
And that's demonstrating lambda expressions which access variables from the enclosing code and also
down the bottom.
We've got a couple of methods there.
One that executes the run method on the interface, one that creates a runnable lambda expression and
passes it to the method above.
Let's run this.
There's the output.
So the output from this code demonstrates that a lambda expression has access to static variables,
instance, variables like all variables, etc., but this is like a bit of a modification to this code.
And I'm going to do is a line forty six, I'm going to add a postfix increment.
Two plus plus is, after all the nurses are doing that, I've introduced a compiler error if we hover
over that.
The variable used in lambda expression should be final or effectively final.
Obviously, incrementing the local variable means that AI isn't final since it's effectively changed.
So let's undo that.
Well, it's more like a kite before we finish the video.
Now, this case produced another pilot error on the declaration of the lambda expression hover over
that verbal case already defined in the scope.
The reason for this, you cannot use variable names in the parameter declarations of the lambda expression
that conflict between closing codes, variables and actually a lot of said that was the last book of
code.
But what I would do is actually replace that card, the same card that actually works.
And I still say the best thing of what I've done here used a perimeter name in the Lambda Declaration
instance, which is the same as the instance variable name, but this causes no compiler error for the
same reason that we can shadow an instance filled with a local variable.
So in summary, in this video I've shown you, always a lambda expression can be used, I've shown you
always a lambda expression can be written off, showing you multiple ways, a lambda expression cannot
be written.
And finally, I've shown you using variables from the enclosing scope in the lambda expression.
Coming up in the next video, we'll be discussing more of the mainstream uses of the functional interface
and the lambda expression.
So see you in the next video.